---
layout: protocol
date:   2016-08-10
title: Mini Prep
category: protocol
---
Goal: Extract correct plasmid out of colony so you can transform more E.Coli cells
Harvest
Centrifuge the overnight LB-culture. (1min 4000RPM) Remove all medium.
Resuspend
Add 250 μL Resuspension Buffer (R3) with RNase A to the cell pellet and resuspend the pellet until it is homogeneous. Transfer to new 1.5 mL microcentrifuge tube.
Lyse
Add 250 μL Lysis Buffer (L7). Mix gently by inverting the capped tube until the mixture is homogeneous. Do not vortex. Incubate the tube at room temperature for 5 minutes.
Precipitate
Add 350 μL Precipitation Buffer (N4). Mix immediately by inverting the tube, or for large pellets, vigorously shaking the tube, until the mixture is homogeneous. Do not vortex. Centrifuge the lysate at >12,000 × g for 10 minutes.
Bind
Load the supernatant from step 4 onto a spin column in a 2-mL wash tube. Centrifuge the column at 12,000 × g for 1 minute. Discard the flow-through and place the column back into the wash tube.
Wash and remove ethanol. Add 700 μL Wash Buffer (W9) with ethanol to the column. Centrifuge the column at 12,000 × g for 1 minute. Discard the flow-through and place the column into the wash tube. Centrifuge the column at 12,000 × g for 1 minute. Discard the wash tube with the flow-through.
Elute
Place the Spin Column in a clean 1.5-mL recovery tube. Add 50 μL of ultrapure H2O to the center of the column. Incubate the column for 5 min at room temperature.
Recover
Centrifuge the column at 12,000 × g for 2 minutes. The recovery tube contains the purified plasmid DNA. Discard the column. Store plasmid DNA at 4°C (short-term) or store the DNA in aliquots at −20°C (long-term).
